Chronograf 1.9.0 changelog (#2775)
influxdata/docs-v2: content/chronograf/v1.9/about_the_project/release-notes-changelog.md

    parent: About the project
---

> ## v1.9.0 [2021-06-23]

Author: ```suggestion
## v1.9.0 [2021-06-25]
```

{{% warn %}}
### Breaking Changes

#### OAuth PKCE

> OAuth integrations in Chronograf now use [OAuth PKCE (RFC7636)](https://oauth.net/2/pkce/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add [OAuth PKCE (RFC7636)](https://oauth.net/2/pkce/) to OAuth integrations in Chronograf. 
```

> to mitigate the threat of the authorization code being intercepted during the OAuth token exchange.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PKCE mitigates the threat of the authorization code being intercepted during the OAuth token exchange.
```

Google, Azure, Octa, Auth0, Gitlab, and others already support OAuth PKCE.
Enabling PKCE should have no effect on integrations with services that don't
support it yet (such as Github or Bitbucket).

> To disable PKCE set the `OAUTH_NO_PKCE` enviornment variable to `=`true` or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To disable PKCE, set the `OAUTH_NO_PKCE` environment variable to `=`true` or
```

  - [Teams](/chronograf/v1.9/guides/configuring-alert-endpoints/#teams)
  - [Zenoss](/chronograf/v1.9/guides/configuring-alert-endpoints/#zenoss)
- Remove HipChat alert endpoints.
- [Show or hide the log status histogram](/chronograf/v1.9/guides/analyzing-logs/#show-or-hide-the-log-status-histogram)
  in the Log Viewer.

> - Add more meta query templates in the Data Explorer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add the following meta query templates in the Data Explorer:
```

  - `EXPLAIN`
  - `EXPLAIN ANALYZE`
- Flux improvements and additional functionality:
  - Add predefined and custom dashboard template variables to Flux query execution.
    Flux queries include a `v` record with a key value pair for each variable.
  - [Define template variables with Flux](/chronograf/v1.9/guides/dashboard-template-variables/#flux-query).
  - Add [Kapacitor Flux tasks](/chronograf/v1.9/guides/advanced-kapacitor/#manage-kapacitor-flux-tasks)
    on the Manage Tasks page (read only).
  - Provide documentation link when Flux is not enabled in InfluxDB 1.8+.

>   - [Write to buckets using the Flux `to()` function](/chronograf/v1.9/guides/write-to-influxdb/#use-the-flux-to-function-in-a-query).

Reviewer 2: There is a Write UI that allows to insert data from a file or using a line protocol text. Before 1.9, it only allowed to write to databases (v1 API), now it also allows to write to buckets (v2 API). It writes buckets when the Flux mode is selected ... as one might expect since the Flux UI works with buckets.

```suggestion
  - Write to buckets when Flux mode is selected.
```

- Flux improvements and additional functionality:
  - Add dashboard template variables to Flux query execution.
    Flux queries include a `v` record with a key value pair for each variable.
  - Support dashboard [template variables defined with Flux](/chronograf/v1.9/guides/dashboard-template-variables/#flux-query).

>   - Add [Kapacitor Flux Tasks](/chronograf/v1.9/guides/advanced-kapacitor/#manage-kapacitor-flux-tasks)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Add [Kapacitor Flux tasks](/chronograf/v1.9/guides/advanced-kapacitor/#manage-kapacitor-flux-tasks)
```

Reviewer: Add support for Flux tasks in Kapacitor ...or are we literally adding specific Flux tasks?

Author: It adds a section to the Manage tasks page that lists Flux tasks added to Kapacitor.

>     on the Manage Tasks page (read only).

Reviewer: Do we need to tell folks how to enable/disable/delete TICKscript tasks, or is it obvious on the UI?

Reviewer: Looks like we say View TICKscript task activity under Manage Kapacitor Flux tasks, to be sure, is that correct?

Author: 1. It's pretty self explanatory.
2. Nice catch! I'll fix it.

  - Provide documentation link when Flux is not enabled in InfluxDB 1.8+.

>   - [Write to buckets](/chronograf/v1.9/guides/write-to-influxdb/#use-the-flux-to-function-in-a-query)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - [Write to buckets using the Flux `to()` function](/chronograf/v1.9/guides/write-to-influxdb/#use-the-flux-to-function-in-a-query)
```

>     when the Flux tab is selected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

- Filter fields in the Query Builder.
- [Select write precision](/chronograf/v1.9/guides/write-to-influxdb/#upload-line-protocol-through-the-chronograf-ui)
  when writing data through the Chronograf UI.

> - Add [PKCE to OAuth integrations](#oauth-pkce).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

- Support [GitHub Enterprise in the existing GitHub OAuth integration](/chronograf/v1.9/administration/managing-security/#configure-github-authentication).

> - Update the Queries page in the InfluxDB Admin section of the UI.

Reviewer: Should we say what we updated on the page?

> - Update the Queries page in the InfluxDB Admin section of the UI.

Author: ```suggestion
- Update the Queries page in the InfluxDB Admin section of the UI.
  - By default, sort queries by execution time in descending order.
  - Sort queries by execution time or database.
  - Include database count in the Queries page title.
  - Select the refresh interval of the queries page.
```

- [Set up InfluxDB Cloud and InfluxDB OSS 2.x connections](/chronograf/v1.9/administration/config-options/#influxdb-connection-options)
  with the `chronograf` CLI.
- Add [custom auto-refresh intervals](/chronograf/v1.9/administration/config-options/#--custom-auto-refresh).

> - Send multiple queries to dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Send multiple queries to a dashboard.
```

- Flux improvements and additional functionality:
  - Add dashboard template variables to Flux query execution.
    Flux queries include a `v` record with a key value pair for each variable.
  - Support dashboard [template variables defined with Flux](/chronograf/v1.9/guides/dashboard-template-variables/#flux-query).
  - Add [Kapacitor Flux tasks](/chronograf/v1.9/guides/advanced-kapacitor/#manage-kapacitor-flux-tasks)
    on the Manage Tasks page (read only).
  - Provide documentation link when Flux is not enabled in InfluxDB 1.8+.
  - [Write to buckets using the Flux `to()` function](/chronograf/v1.9/guides/write-to-influxdb/#use-the-flux-to-function-in-a-query).
- Filter fields in the Query Builder.
- [Select write precision](/chronograf/v1.9/guides/write-to-influxdb/#upload-line-protocol-through-the-chronograf-ui)
  when writing data through the Chronograf UI.
- Support [GitHub Enterprise in the existing GitHub OAuth integration](/chronograf/v1.9/administration/managing-security/#configure-github-authentication).

> - Update the Queries page in the InfluxDB Admin section of the UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Update the Queries page in the InfluxDB Admin section of the UI to include the following:
```

  - By default, sort queries by execution time in descending order.

>   - Sort queries by execution time or database.

Reviewer: Would it be accurate to say: Add option to sort queries by....or does this sort happen automatically by some trigger?

Author: This happens if you click the column title.

  - Include database count in the Queries page title.

>   - Select the refresh interval of the queries page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Select the refresh interval of the Queries page.
```

Reviewer: Would it be accurate to say: Add option to select(set?) the refresh interval.
